# **MM10: Number Auction**

### **Summary**

In this positive variant of Minus Auction, players must bid for numbers to score points. Winning, however, is a bit more complicated.

### **Gameplay**

Each player will be given 100 bidding tokens, and will gain 40 each round after the first one. They persist through rounds.

There will be ten rounds in this MM, each lasting 24 hours each. In each round, five numbers from 1-50 will be put up for auction -- each number will appear in exactly one round. 

Each player can bid any of their bidding tokens for any of the numbers offered in a round, though players cannot bid more than they have at the moment. For each number, the player with the highest bid for that number will take it -- if there is a tie for highest bid, no player takes it. 

The winning bids and player inventories are public information.

At the end of the game, players will score the sum of the numbers they have. They will also earn points for the following criteria:
1) They will score n² points for each n-length chain of consecutive numbers they have, where n>1.
2) For each number a player has, that player scores points equal to the sum of all factors of that number that the player also has. 
3) If a player has both n and 51-n for any n, that player scores an additional 7 points.

### **Winners**

A 3x3 grid of conditions will be used to determine the winner at the end of the MM. Players will attempt to satisfy conditions that lead to a 3-in-a-row, vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. 

A1: Have a subset of 9 numbers such that, when ordered, the difference between two adjacent numbers is less than or equal to five.
A2: Have at least 50 bidding tokens remaining at the end of the game.
A3: Have exactly one number that is equal to the average of all your numbers. 
B1: Take at least four of the five numbers in any round. 
B2: Score at least 360 points.
B3: Have 5 distinct numbers A, B, C, D, and E such that A=B+C=D+E.   
C1: Have at least 5 prime numbers. As a reminder, 1 is not prime.
C2: When each of your numbers is divided by 8, have every possible remainder (0-7).
C3: Have a number such that you also have at least four factors of that number.

At most one Token of Life can be won.

The player with the most unique 3-in-a-rows (if another player gets the exact same 3-in-a-row, it doesn’t count) wins the Token of Life. If there is a tie, the player who satisfied the most conditions wins the Token of Life. If there is a further tie, the player with the most points wins the tie. If there is a further tie, nobody wins the MM.

The EC is the player without a Token of Life who has the least amount of points. If this is a tie, the winner of the MM selected the EC from among the tied players. If there is no winner of the MM, idk some other tiebreaker.

### **Submissions**

For each number, submit a nonnegative integer number of bidding tokens. If you spend more bidding tokens than you have, your bids will go through from lowest number of bidding tokens to highest number of bidding tokens until you are out of bidding tokens. 

### **Garnets**

A garnet can be used to gain 10 Bidding Tokens. This cost doubles every time you use it.


