# **Main Match 11: Range and Power**

### **Summary**

With high range, you can reach a vast multitude of gems, but at a risk. With high power, you can assure yourself only a small number of gems. Predict your opponents’ moves and tactically claim gems to avoid the Death Match!

### **Setup**

The game will be played on across seven 5x5 grids. Each space either contains a Red Gem, a Blue Gem, or a Green Gem. Each of the grids will be published beforehand.

### **Gameplay**

In each of the seven rounds (24 hours each), each player gains 10 **skill points**. Skill points can be either put into Range, put into Power, or saved for the next round. Range and Power are set to zero at the start of each round. 

One of the seven grids that has not been chosen before is selected at random.

Players then must select a number of spaces equal to their Range. 

For each space, the player with the highest Power who selected it among those who have not claimed it in the previous round claims it. If nobody selected it, then it remains there for the next round. 

If a Red Gem is claimed, that player earns 4 points.
If a Blue Gem is claimed, that player earns 2 points and 1 **skill point** for the next round.
If a Green Gem is claimed, that player earns points equal to the number of Red Gems and Blue Gems claimed by the same player in the same round. 

Players will also score points equal to the square of the size of the highest interconnected (all gems can be reached from every other gem by traveling across adjacent gems) group of gems that they claim in a single ground. These gems need not be the same color.

### **Winner**

The player with the highest amount of points wins a **Token of Life**, while the other two players face each other in the DM. If there is a tie for first, the winner will be found by checking which of the tied players had the highest score in the semi-final round. If there is a further tie, then the round before that will be checked, and so on for further ties. The EC is the one with fewer points, if there is a tie this is determined by the winner. 

Players will earn one Garnet per multiple of 12 points they have.

### **Garnets**

A garnet can be used to gain another Skill Point for the current round. The price doubles each time this is used.

